---
title: Packed
author: Harpo
layout: post
permalink: /2008/11/23/packed/
categories:
  - friends
  - music
  - school
  - tech
---
I had a busy and exhausting weekend. But first things first. Quantum of Solace was AWESOME the second time around. I had some trouble getting home afterwards; I was much later than I wanted to be, but it worked out in the end.  
I worked all day yesterday, and had a very interesting thing happen. Someone brought in 5.5&#8243; floppy disks, wanting to retrieve data from them. The reason this is interesting is that 5.5&#8243; floppies are older than I am. These particular disks were from 1992, but the technology was old even then; it originated in &#8217;71. These are from when they were actually floppy; the disc consists of a flexible plastic case with a data disc inside. These particular disks had a capacity of less than 1MB. I can&#8217;t think of the last time I saw ones like them.  
Saturday evening, Will came over. Along with some other guy-friends, him and I went to see Twilight. My friend pointed out that we just had to take a group of guys to this unashamedly teenage-girl-targeted movie. It was a tremendous experience. Everyone in the theater was laughing, most at the movie, except for a group of girls next to us who thought that we were very funny. And so, I suppose, we were.  
Will and I worked this morning, and I went to work for the afternoon. I was supposed to have a recording session tonight, but there was a miscommunication, and it is not happening. I will, however, be going tomorrow through Wednesday nights as originally planned.  
I am going to be working tomorrow, and possibly some more this week. Will and I will be working a fair amount as well. I have a bunch of homework and college-related stuff to do, such as sending SAT scores. Despite this somewhat obnoxious stuff to do, it looks to be an excellent and productive vacation.