---
title: A good night for dreams
author: Harpo
layout: post
permalink: /2008/09/25/a-good-night-for-dreams/
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - yes
categories:
  - family
  - film
---
Both my sister and I had excellent dreams last night. In mine, I was at the Mock Trial state finals, which take place in Faneuil Hall in Boston, except that Faneuil hall was in Orange instead. We were facing Newton South (who we lost to in the finals last year), and the trial was just beginning. The judge made a comment about how pleased she (it was the judge from The Dark Knight) was to see so many spectators from both schools there. When she said this, everyone who was their from Newton South, parents, students, teachers, etc., stood up, and all started switching chairs continuously. Everyone was running around, and it was very loud and confusing. The judge seemed fine with it, so I stood up and objected, saying that their had been a gross infraction of the rules of conduct. I requested a few minutes for my co-counsel to gather themselves before we proceeded with the trial. The judge agreed, but instead of having a brief recess, for the next few minutes, people came up to the microphone and sang or played songs, like an open mic. I got fed up with it, and decided to leave. I left Faneuil Hall, and rollerbladed through Orange (I was wearing the black shorts I have with a paint stain on the fly [I had changed out of my suit pants because I was hot]) and my suit jacket. I rollerbladed down Route 2, into the center of Greenfield (which is not on Route 2), where I decided to turn around and go back. The only problem was that the way back was uphill a lot of the time, so it was going to take a while. Soon I came to a river. On the way there, I had parked in Greenfield, and walked the rest of the way, so I had swam across the river, but since I had rollerblades now, I couldn&#8217;t do that. I rollerbladed upriver, until I came to the bridge that connected Greenfield to Orange. It was the bridge that goes over the dam in the center of Shelburne Falls. I went over the bridge, back to the courthouse (the entrance to which was located in a very low concrete building, sort of like a fallout shelter. Going into the building, I met a classmate of mine, Jake Edwards, who in the dream was also on the Mock Trial team, although he isn&#8217;t in real life. We entered Faneuil Hall through the back door, and our coach, Gary, saw us, and told everyone we were back.  
That is where my recollection ends. I have several theories about this dream. The fact that there are so many different geographic locations that were brought together tends to signify that I am doing way too many things (true) and that my focus is all over the place (also true). Jake Edwards is probably in the dream because he appeared on my street last night while I was walking the dog. Apparently he has a friend in number 18, the big brick house, who he was picking up. He didn&#8217;t know I lived there, either. Orange is probably in the dream because I drove there the other night to pick up my friends for the dance we went to. Mock Trial is there because, well, I think about it all the time, even though the season doesn&#8217;t start until November.  
Koko&#8217;s dream involved a bunch of characters from various Joss Whedon shows. There were credits in her dream, and Joss Whedon was in them.