---
title: Busy busy
author: Harpo
layout: post
permalink: /2008/11/25/busy-busy/
categories:
  - friends
  - music
  - school
  - work
---
Surprisingly, I have had less time to write while on vacation than I normally do when school is in session. I have been working a lot, but that gets me home only a little bit later than school does. Anyway, it&#8217;s not because interesting things don&#8217;t happen to me; I have had a very interesting few days. At the moment, our dining room is rather smelly, because my dog attacked one of our chickens and tore out a bunch of her feathers, so she (the chicken, that is) has to be kept inside in a dog kennel until it is warm enough for her to go outside or she&#8217;s grown back enough feathers. My sister and I went to Wal-Mart this evening to get some bedding and disinfectant for her. Unfortunately, I forgot that chickens can&#8217;t have cedar bedding, and I got real Betadine instead of the house brand. My mom went to return the cedar and get pine instead, and she took the Betadine to try to exchange it for the house brand, which is about eight times less expensive. So I wasted my, and everyone else&#8217;s time. But we also got a King Size Reese&#8217;s (four pack) so it was not a total loss.  
I have a lot of homework to do. I have a Chemistry worksheet to finish, and I have to complete the second component of my honors project for Honors Shakespeare&#8217;s Comedies. The Sonnet of the Week project is the first, but I also am reading the full text of Shakespeare&#8217;s sonnets, and writing a paper analyzing how his sonnets changed over time, how mine changed, and how they compare.  
I went on the Common Application website today for the first time since I submitted my application to check on the status of my recommendations. My second recommendation, from the math department head, was finished today, and we are working on getting it in to the Brown admissions office. I have a third, supplementary, recommendation that I&#8217;m waiting on from the music department head, but that may or may not come in, as his father, may he rest in peace, passed away recently. I have not seen him in a while. My father, who works at school (and has been there this week), said that he saw him today, but he was only in for a little while. Clearly, I&#8217;d like a recommendation, but for the moment I am just glad that he is doing well. Mitch, if you&#8217;re reading this, we love you.  
I am taking tomorrow off work so that Will and I can work, but that belongs on the <a href="http://harpojaeger.com/lego_plog" target="_blank">Plog</a> rather than here. Enough said.  
5-Alone (PVPA&#8217;s a cappella group, for which I am the beatboxer) is getting interviewed by a college student for a project of hers. We might be on the radio, which is exciting.  
Over and out.