---
title: More?
author: Harpo
layout: post
comments: true
permalink: /2008/12/28/more/
tags:
  - current events
  - religion
---
The situation in Gaza has worsened significantly. More than 275 have been killed by Israeli airstrikes.  
I for one have had enough. Enough of people who claim that they are entirely right and that the ends justifies the means. To Hamas and the militants firing rockets, I say stop harming and harassing civilians. No cause is worth that. To Israel, I say the same. No matter who think they are right. This is the twenty-first century. Humanity has come so far. We do not need to fire explosives at each other over territorial disputes. Sit down and talk it out.  
America has the power to end this. Rather than just condemning Hamas&#8217; &#8220;bringing this on themselves&#8221;, America should step in and mandate a ceasefire.  
I&#8217;ve also had enough of peaceniks who think we can just ask for peace over and over and it will work. Decisive and definite action is required. I propose the following terms of a ceasefire:

*   Israel stops all airstrikes and infantry operations.
*   Gaza halts all rocket attacks.
*   Israel lifts the blockade entirely.
*   Egypt opens its border with Gaza to allow refugees a place to run to.
*   All Israeli settlers be given a forty-eight hour deadline to pack up and leave.  If they are not gone by that time, the IDF should forcibly remove them.

This is pretty harsh.  Especially kicking the settlers out of their homes.  But it&#8217;s necessary.  Their continued presence is an insult and an affront to Judaism, Zionism, Arabs, and regional stability.  As a Jew, I will not permit those who share my faith (even if only by name) to stain it with their fundamentalism.  These people are no different in ideology than suicide bombers.  They believe that their religion and heritage give them more access to the truth than others.

Enough, I say.  Let this end.  If Israel and Hamas can&#8217;t end it on their own, we who call ourselves civilized countries must.  It is the only the civilized thing to do.