---
title: '3G S &amp; Cadence'
author: Harpo
layout: post
permalink: /2009/06/21/3g-s-cadence/
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - yes
aktt_tweeted:
  - 1
tags:
  - friends
  - money
  - music
  - school
  - tech
  - travel
---
The saga of my purchasing of the new iPhone 3G S began yesterday, when my mom asked why I hadn&#8217;t camped out for the new iPhone.  I explained to her the upgrade eligibility requirements, which resulted in my being unable to buy an iPhone at the unsubsidized price until December 12th.  She tried to find a way around it, and we spent a while on the phone, somewhat unsuccessfully.  The result was that I went to the Apple Store in Holyoke today to try to badger them into giving me a phone for the cheap price.  They couldn&#8217;t for any of the reasons we had thought of, but it turned out my father&#8217;s line (on the family plan) was eligible for an upgrade, so we bought the phone through that line, and then went to the AT&T store and had them switch it.  This took two full trips back and forth, but it got done, and the result is that I have the new iPhone, which is awesome.  I&#8217;m still working on a case for it, but the new features seem to be pretty great.

This evening I was in Natick seeing <a href="http://cadence-unplugged.com" target="_blank">Cadence</a> with two other members of 5-Alone.  The show was excellent.  They did a lot more jazz standard and barbershop type stuff than I was expecting.  It was all good, but some of it felt a little recursive after a while.  Except for the Cole Porter.  Cole Porter is really the best.  You just can&#8217;t beat him in terms of standards.  Fabulous.

It has been an extremely successful day.