---
title: Mourn
author: Harpo
layout: post
permalink: /2009/03/26/mourn/
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - yes
aktt_tweeted:
  - 1
categories:
  - family
  - religion
  - travel
---
I am in New Jersey right now at my grandmother&#8217;s house, having just come from Long Island from another family member&#8217;s house following the graveside service, which we were unable to get to, as it was at ten-thirty this morning.  We didn&#8217;t want to catch all of the rush hour traffic, so we left at about ten and got in at one-thirty.  We were there until about eight.  There was a very nice evening service at about seven.

Throughout the afternoon and evening, I spent a lot of time with a lot of different people.  Some of them I knew and had seen recently (in exemplum my grandfather [most recently sighted at my aunt's wedding in L.A.]).  Some of them I knew and had not seen for a long time (in exemplum my grandfather&#8217;s cousin, the widow of the deceased [most recently sighted at her apartment several years ago]).  Some of them I had never met before in my life (in exemplum her sister).  Anyway, I had a really good time, or as much of a good time as one should have at a post-funeral <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shiva_(Judaism)" target="_blank">Shiva</a> session.

Everyone has their own way of mourning.  Some people cry a lot, some people are solid and stoic and then cry a lot in private, some are solid and stoic and never cry.  Some are somewhere in between, defying categorization.  It is weird.  It is hard to predict how people will act.  I try not to stop trying though, because I think that if you just sit back and accept the way people feel, it can be easy to get caught up in emotions and not understand what&#8217;s actually happening around you.  It is important to be sympathetic and comforting while still trying to understand your feelings.