---
title: Birthday
author: Harpo
layout: post
permalink: /2009/03/05/birthday/
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - yes
aktt_tweeted:
  - 1
categories:
  - family
  - film
  - food
  - friends
  - frisbee
  - medical
---
Today was an odd day.  My sister is fifteen.  This is a rather advanced age.  I am still grappling with its implications.

The day did not begin well, however.  My sister (yes, the same one whose birthday it is) was very sick, and was up early in the morning.  I was woken at about four, and was able to fall back asleep, but other members of my family were not so lucky.  My sister did not go to school today.  Then, when my youngest sister went out to let the chickens out of their coop this morning, she discovered that one had been locked out last night, and had been killed by a predator.  This is the first time we have had a chicken killed in the almost two years we&#8217;ve been raising them, and it was rather shocking.  My sister was rather traumatized, having just been presented face-to-face with the mangled carcass of a bird she thought she was letting out, and she came back inside sobbing.  My father and I had to clean up, and as the poor thing had been out all night, it was frozen solid.  It was quite a job, and I thus had a very sad start to the day.

School went well after that, except that I did not have enough food, and was thus rather headache-ish and grumpy all day.  We had a rather cold ultimate practice outside, and I managed to go the entire day without eating the four cupcakes I was entrusted with by a classmate of my sister&#8217;s who had baked them for her birthday and asked me to transmit them to her.  This was no mean, feat, but I got one after dinner, so I am happy.

Our plans for Watchmen are solidified.  A few members of our extended group have been their since a bit before five PM, and I will be meeting them there within a few hours, along with some other friends arriving from elsewhere.  I will be picking up one other on the way.  The movie is two hours and forty-three minutes long, so it&#8217;s going to be a late night.  But it will be worth it.