---
title: 'Cross-posted from Jewschool: Judaism and internet anonymity'
author: Harpo
layout: post
permalink: /2009/08/09/cross-posted-from-jewschool-judaism-and-internet-anonymity/
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - yes
aktt_tweeted:
  - 1
tags:
  - internet
  - Jewschool
  - religion
---
I <a href="http://jewschool.com/2009/08/07/17223/hello-world-2/" target="_blank">said before</a> that I would share some biographical information about myself, so <a href="http://harpojaeger.github.io/about" target="_blank">here it is</a>. The real reason I&#8217;m writing this post is to talk about some issues that I thought of while deciding what sort of biographical information to share. One criticism of the internet that I hear a lot, particularly regarding blogger, concerns anonymity. People don&#8217;t like the idea of someone being able to write whatever they want without their name or identifying information attached to it. I&#8217;ve been thinking about what this means from a Jewish perspective. What ethical responsibilities do I, as a blogger, have to those who read my writing? Do I owe them information about myself? I don&#8217;t think I do. There&#8217;s no reason a blogger can&#8217;t write responsibly, with well-researched and well-cited information, while still maintaining anonymity. I personally have no problem with people on the Internet knowing who I am, but there a lot of cases where that&#8217;s not true. The key is this: there&#8217;s a difference between anonymity and cowardice. I can write under a handle without ever linking that handle to any kind of real-world information, but I still have a responsibility to provide honest content and to respond honestly to criticism. Using anonymity as a shield for ignorance or deception is not acceptable. That&#8217;s true in any field, and the <a href="http://xkcd.com/181/" target="_blank">blagotubes</a> are no exception. Neither is it acceptable to use my anonymity to spread *<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lashon_hara" target="_blank">lashon hara</a>.* So from a Jewish ethical perspective, as well as one of scholarly responsibility, with great anonymity comes great responsibility. Given the pitfalls of anonymity, are there any advantages? Well, if one provides useful content free of charge (most bloggers dont&#8217; get paid), it could be considered a form of *<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tzedakah" target="_blank">tzedakah</a>*. I&#8217;m not trying to sound self-centered here, but ideally blogging is a useful form of information and perspective, in donation form. <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maimonides" target="_blank">Maimonides</a> said that one of the higher levels of tzedakah is giving anonymously to an unknown source. So if a blogger writes an anonymous post, they&#8217;re engaging in a high level of charitable giving. They don&#8217;t know who&#8217;s going to read their post; it could be anyone in the world. That&#8217;s the beauty of the medium. And the person reading it doesn&#8217;t know who wrote it. So there&#8217;s been an exchange of significant information between two people, neither of whom have any idea who the other is. There&#8217;s no ego involved (&#8220;look how much *I* know about this topic&#8221;), just learning. That, to me, exemplifies both the ideals of Jewish text study or *<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chevruta" target="_blank">chevrutah</a><span style="font-style: normal;"> and those of journalism; the pure exchange of ideas.</span>* *<span style="font-style: normal;">So in this case, as in most, the internet makes it easier to do really good work or really bad work. The question is, which one will you choose?</span>*

<span style="font-style: normal;"><em>This post <a href="http://jewschool.com/2009/08/09/17230/judaism-and-internet-anonymity" target="_blank">originally appeared </a>on <a href="http://jewschool.com" target="_blank">Jewschool</a>.</em></span>