---
title: Buckle
author: Harpo
layout: post
permalink: /2009/04/28/buckle/
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - yes
aktt_tweeted:
  - 1
tags:
  - current events
  - dance
  - friends
  - frisbee
  - money
  - school
  - tech
---
It&#8217;s been a while since I wrote.  I have been very busy and very tired.

The NMH tournament was awesome.  We got destroyed (we were 0 and 5), but we won the Spirit of the Game award, with an unprecedented-at-that-tournament perfect score of 50/50, receiving a 10/10 from each of the five teams we played.  We got a nice plaque, and everything.  After the tournament, me and some friends, including one from NMH, went for a quick dip in the river.

That night I went to a late show at the Iron Horse, Gokh-Bi System.  They are a sort of funk/hip-hop/fusion sort of band, with members from around here, and Senegal.  They were great.  They had three frontmen from Senegal, who would rap, sing, drum and also dance.  They also had this sort of designated dancer dude who would come up onto the stage at certain times and do incredible dances.  We danced a lot in the audience, and people were coming up on stage all the time to dance with the band, and throw money all over them.  It was fabulous.  I think I may buy some of their music from iTunes, now that it is DRM-free.

Sunday I went to see that same friend from NMH&#8217;s senior honors recital, which was also fabulous.  He played two pieces with piano accompaniment (on violin and viola), and played viola in the string quartet he wrote.  This was the first time that piece had been performed, and it was really good.  He wrote it mostly this winter, immediately following the unexpected death of a friend from leukemia.

Two other students played at the recital, one on drums, and one on piano.  Both were excellent, and after the show there was a reception with those sort of round wafers with chocolate filling in the middle, and strawberries.  Also there was confectioners&#8217; sugar to dip the strawberries in, which I had never done before, but which was great.

I have been getting very little sleep in the past few nights because of mounds of homework, which will continue tonight.  With that in mind, I will say that Arlen Specter is a very brave soul.

RIP, <a href="http://www.frankiemanning.com/" target="_blank">Frankie Manning</a>.  We will miss you.