---
title: One-year
author: Harpo
layout: post
permalink: /2009/08/02/one-year/
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - yes
aktt_tweeted:
  - 1
tags:
  - current events
  - internet
  - school
  - site
---
Today marks the one-year anniversary of this site&#8217;s transition to WordPress, and, thus, the one-year anniversary of my beginning to blog in earnest.  This is a good opportunity to reflect on some stuff I&#8217;ve learned and look to the future of this site and my interests.

I&#8217;ve gone through a lot of different phases with this blog.  I began by using it as sort of a journal of my actions and thoughts.  Coupled with the WordPress client for iPhone, I did a fair amount of spontaneous and short blogging, expressing ideas I had, things I saw, and so forth.  As school began, I started becoming more introverted, focusing on the way I felt (usually being under a lot of stress, as it was senior year).  In January, my iPhone was stolen, and I lost the ability to blog at anytime.  I started blogging almost compulsively when I got home every day, almost as a way to let out my feelings.  Because of everything that was going on at school, it felt good to have a place to write about what I thought it all mean.  Sometimes it&#8217;s hard to articulate that sort of stuff when you&#8217;re still in it.  You need to take a step back.  Blogging has definitely helped me do that, in other areas of my life as well.

When I got a new iPhone in early July, I started using Twitter for uses other than just tracking this blog, and shortly thereafter joined Facebook.  Now I use those as two methods of communication (they&#8217;re closely integrated), and have begun to regard this blog as more of a place for contemplative, well though-out concepts or arguments.  A lot of my writing has been inspired by the increasing amount of other blogs I&#8217;ve been reading, including <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Krugman" target="_blank">Paul Krugman</a>&#8216;s <a href="http://krugman.blogs.nytimes.com/" target="_blank">The Conscience of a Liberal</a>, <a href="http://jewschool.com/" target="_blank">Jewschool</a>, <a href="http://www.americanprogress.org/" target="_blank">CAP</a>, and <a href="http://climateprogress.org/" target="_blank">Climate Progress</a>, to name a few.  In a lot of cases, doing this writing has helped me solidify my own thoughts on subjects, and opened my mind to new points of view.

In the future, I want to blog more regularly than I have been recently; at least a couple times a week.  Interestingly, it was easier for me to blog regularly during the school year than it has been now.  I&#8217;m planning to blog a couple times next week from the <a href="http://havurah.org" target="_blank">NHC</a> <a href="http://havurah.org/institute" target="_blank">Summer Institute</a> about the program and some issues that I will be considering during my time there.  There&#8217;s a plan for facilitation of a dialogue about the continuing Israeli-Palestinian conflict (although I don&#8217;t really like calling it that), so I&#8217;m expecting to get some interesting stuff out of that.

As I begin school, I will almost definitely be undergoing some serious life changes in terms of how I spend my time and what I work on.  I intend to keep this blog an important component of my work and thoughts, and I hope to attract a wider audience as I meet new people and discover new ideas.

It&#8217;s been an incredibly rewarding year in many ways.  I look forward to many more.