---
title: Car
author: Harpo
layout: post
permalink: /2009/02/10/car/
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - yes
aktt_tweeted:
  - 1
tags:
  - family
  - friends
  - internet
  - mock trial
  - school
  - tech
---
Our car broke down on the way home from school today.  It had been making strange noises since yesterday, starting with a loud squealing, which I determined to be a bad belt yesterday.  On the way home today very odd things began to happen.  The radio turned off and then on again, started to sound fuzzy and crackly, the lights flickered, and then all electrical power cut out entirely.  When I tried to turn on the heat and my father tried the headlights, the car lurched and started to lose power.  Then, about five blocks from the house, the engine shut off entirely.  We are pretty sure that the belt that I noted as bad is the one that drives the alternator.  If the belt stopped working (when I opened the hood this afternoon it seemed very loose), the alternator would have stopped, and we were thus running only on battery power.  As the voltage drained, we lost electrical systems, before the entire engine shut off altogether.  My father is on his way home from the garage now.  We will find out about the car tomorrow I suppose.

Meanwhile, I have a trial tomorrow.  We&#8217;re leaving at twelve-thirty, and as it&#8217;s Wednesday, I have no classes whatsoever in the morning.  I will spend my time relaxing, eating, and doing homework.  I am not sure how we&#8217;re going to get to school without a car.  I suppose we will figure it out.

Also, <a href="http://willszal.com" target="_blank">Will Szal&#8217;s site</a> is up and running now.  Check it out; there&#8217;s some pretty awesome stuff up, and more in the works.