---
title: Disc
author: Harpo
layout: post
permalink: /2009/05/14/disc/
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - yes
aktt_tweeted:
  - 1
categories:
  - food
  - friends
  - frisbee
  - school
---
We lost to Amherst JV A today on a universe point; it was 5-5, game to 6.  It was a pretty awesome game.

Tomorrow, I am biking to school (as I did yesterday) with a ton of other people.  It is Community Day, so we have no classes, and there are activities and free food (Chinese and Jamaican) all day.  A friend and I are performing a Talking Heads song at the open mic later.  Then the frisbee team leaves for the St. Johnsbury tournament after school.  That I am really looking forward to.  We&#8217;re in the B division, which means that some of our newer players should get to play a bunch more.  It also means that I am planning to win the division, which would be pretty awesome.  The tournament lasts through Sunday.  I will be bringing my megaphone.  Enough said.

Last night I finished the first draft of the one-act I&#8217;m writing.  It&#8217;s a collaboration between my Playwriting class and my school&#8217;s Holocaust Studies class, which I took last year, and will be used, once completed, in the Holocaust Rescue unit.  We read it in class today, and I got some very useful feedback on it.  I am very excited to see how it plays out when completed.  The Holocaust Studies class will do at least one reading of it, hopefully public.  This will be the first time I&#8217;ve ever had any of my work read outside of class.  WAHOO!