---
title: Forward
author: Harpo
layout: post
comments: true
permalink: /2009/02/15/forward/
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - yes
aktt_tweeted:
  - 1
tags:
  - family
  - food
  - friends
  - mock trial
  - work
---
This has been an exhausting weekend, and it is not over yet.  Yesterday I was at work all day, and was fortunate enough to have someone bring in a computer that had been dropped repeatedly, and, I kid you not, had port spilled over the keyboard.  Last night we cooked a sumptuous Valentine&#8217;s Day meal, which included steak, sweet potatoes, and other such awesome things.  Then we watched The Truman Show, with Jim Carrey, which is officially one of the best movies ever.  It is transcendently beautiful and astute, especially because it was made before the era of reality TV.

I discovered a <a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/7888539.stm" target="_blank">fabulous article on the BBC.  </a>My first name is Rafael.

Today I went to Costco in the morning to pick up my new glasses, which are very subtle.  Then I worked from 12-4.  Now I am home.  My family is on their way back from a show at my school (M. Butterfly [which I was REALLY bummed to miss (they sold out of tickets to last night's show [we got tickets to the matinee today (which I couldn't go to [because I was at work (but last night my friend told me that there were in fact seats available at last night's show [so I could have gone (which makes me pretty angry)])])])]), and we are going to go to dinner at our friends&#8217; house in Conway.  I have not seen this family for a long time, so I am looking forward to it immensely.

As I got my requisite slice of pizza for lunch it occurred to me that I have been eating junk food all day.  I had pie when I woke up, a hot dog at Costco, and then pizza for lunch.

<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R3jv2cUgt1M" target="_blank">Pizzazz (Gonna Give It To Ya!<span style="text-decoration: underline;">)</span></a> is a video made by two of my coworkers when they were in college.  It is one of the funniest things I have seen in a long time.

We are having a Mock Trial meeting at my house tomorrow.  I will be <a href="http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=93170569" target="_blank">bedinnering</a> the team.  Pesto.

Over and out.